Qdrant Articles - Qdrant Qdrant Cloud Build Learn API Reference Search Log in Start Free Search Qdrant Cloud Build Learn API Reference Articles Vector Search Manuals Qdrant Internals Data Exploration Machine Learning RAG & GenAI Practical Examples Ecosystem Articles Vector Search Manuals Qdrant Internals Data Exploration Machine Learning RAG & GenAI Practical Examples Ecosystem Vector Search Manuals Take full control of your vector data with Qdrant. Learn how to easily store, organize, and optimize vectors for high-performance similarity search. Learn More MUVERA: Making Multivectors More Performant Multi-vector representations are superior to single-vector embeddings in many benchmarks. MUVERA embeddings aim to solve the problem of slow multi-vector search by creating a single-vector representation that approximates the multi-vector representation. This single vector can be used for fast initial retrieval using traditional vector search methods, and then the multi-vector representation can be used for reranking the top results. Kacper Łukawski September 05, 2025 How to choose an embedding model Building proper search requires selecting the right embedding model for your specific use case. This guide helps you navigate the selection process based on performance, cost, and other practical considerations. Kacper Łukawski July 15, 2025 Vector Search in Production We gathered our most recommended tips and tricks to make your production deployment run smoothly. David Myriel April 30, 2025 Qdrant Internals Take a look under the hood of Qdrant’s high-performance vector search engine. Explore the architecture, components, and design principles the Qdrant Vector Search Engine is built on. Learn More Built for Vector Search Why add-on vector search looks good — until you actually use it. Evgeniya Sukhodolskaya & Andrey Vasnetsov February 17, 2025 Introducing Gridstore: Qdrant's Custom Key-Value Store Why and how we built our own key-value store. A short technical report on our procedure and results. Luis Cossio, Arnaud Gourlay & David Myriel February 05, 2025 Qdrant Internals: Immutable Data Structures Learn how immutable data structures improve vector search performance in Qdrant. Andrey Vasnetsov August 20, 2024 Data Exploration Learn how you can leverage vector similarity beyond just search. Reveal hidden patterns and insights in your data, provide recommendations, and navigate data space. Learn More Distance-based data exploration Explore your data under a new angle with Qdrant's tools for dimensionality reduction, clusterization, and visualization. Andrey Vasnetsov March 11, 2025 Discovery needs context Discovery Search, an innovative way to constrain the vector space in which a search is performed, relying only on vectors. Luis Cossío January 31, 2024 Vector Similarity: Going Beyond Full-Text Search | Qdrant Discover how vector similarity expands data exploration beyond full-text search. Explore diversity sampling and more for enhanced data discovery! Luis Cossío August 08, 2023 Machine Learning Explore Machine Learning principles and practices which make modern semantic similarity search possible. Apply Qdrant and vector search capabilities to your ML projects. Learn More miniCOIL: on the Road to Usable Sparse Neural Retrieval Introducing miniCOIL, a lightweight sparse neural retriever capable of generalization. Evgeniya Sukhodolskaya May 13, 2025 Relevance Feedback in Informational Retrieval Relerance feedback: from ancient history to LLMs. Why relevance feedback techniques are good on paper but not popular in neural search, and what we can do about it. Evgeniya Sukhodolskaya March 27, 2025 Modern Sparse Neural Retrieval: From Theory to Practice A comprehensive guide to modern sparse neural retrievers: COIL, TILDEv2, SPLADE, and more. Find out how they work and learn how to use them effectively. Evgeniya Sukhodolskaya October 23, 2024 RAG & GenAI Leverage Qdrant for Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and build AI Agents Learn More Building Performant, Scaled Agentic Vector Search with Qdrant Learn how to build performant, scalable AI agents with efficient vector retrieval, hybrid dense-sparse search, real-time memory, multimodal context integration, and optimized architectures for low-latency, high-accuracy execution in production environments. Thierry Damiba October 26, 2025 What is Agentic RAG? Building Agents with Qdrant Agents are a new paradigm in AI, and they are changing how we build RAG systems. Learn how to build agents with Qdrant and which framework to choose. Kacper Łukawski November 22, 2024 Optimizing RAG Through an Evaluation-Based Methodology Learn how Qdrant-powered RAG applications can be tested and iteratively improved using LLM evaluation tools like Quotient. Atita Arora June 12, 2024 Practical Examples Building blocks and reference implementations to help you get started with Qdrant. Learn how to use Qdrant to solve real-world problems and build the next generation of AI applications. Learn More Optimizing OpenAI Embeddings: Enhance Efficiency with Qdrant's Binary Quantization Explore how Qdrant's Binary Quantization can significantly improve the efficiency and performance of OpenAI's Ada-003 embeddings. Learn best practices for real-time search applications. Nirant Kasliwal February 21, 2024 Food Discovery Demo Feeling hungry? Find the perfect meal with Qdrant's multimodal semantic search. Kacper Łukawski September 05, 2023 Semantic Search As You Type To show off Qdrant's performance, we show how to do a quick search-as-you-type that will come back within a few milliseconds. Andre Bogus August 14, 2023 Ecosystem Tools, libraries and integrations around Qdrant vector search engine. Learn More Qdrant Summer of Code 2024 - WASM based Dimension Reduction My journey as a Qdrant Summer of Code 2024 participant working on enhancing vector visualization using WebAssembly (WASM) based dimension reduction. Jishan Bhattacharya August 31, 2024 FastEmbed: Qdrant's Efficient Python Library for Embedding Generation Learn how to accurately and efficiently create text embeddings with FastEmbed. Nirant Kasliwal October 18, 2023 Google Summer of Code 2023 - Web UI for Visualization and Exploration My journey as a Google Summer of Code 2023 student working on the "Web UI for Visualization and Exploration" project for Qdrant. Kartik Gupta August 28, 2023 Ready to get started with Qdrant? Start Free © 2025 Qdrant. Terms Privacy Policy Impressum